docs/whatsnew/0.4.rst, before:

.. doctest-skip-all

.. _whatsnew-0.4:

==========================
What's New in Astropy 0.4?
==========================

Overview
--------

xxx

Inspecting FITS headers from the command line
---------------------------------------------

The :ref:`astropy-io-fits` sub-package now provides a command line script for
inspecting the header(s) of a FITS file. With Astropy 0.4 installed, run 
``fitsheader file.fits`` in your terminal to print the header information to
the screen in a human-readable format. Run ``fitsheader --help`` to see the
full usage documentation.

Documentation/Sphinx extension changes
--------------------------------------

Starting in v0.4, astropy documentation will now show the full name of functions
and classes prefixed by the intended user-facing location.  This is in contrast
to previous versions, which pointed to the actual implementation module, rather
than the intended public API location.

This will affect URLs pointing to specific documentation pages.  For example,
this URL points to the v0.3 location of the
`astropy.cosmology.luminosity_distance` function:
http://docs.astropy.org/en/v0.3/api/astropy.cosmology.funcs.luminosity_distance.html
while the appropriate URL for v0.4 and later is:
http://docs.astropy.org/en/v0.4/api/astropy.cosmology.luminosity_distance.html

Deprecation and backward-incompatible changes
---------------------------------------------

- ``Quantity`` comparisons with ``==`` or ``!=`` now always return ``True``
  or ``False``, even if units do not match (for which case a ``UnitsError``
  used to be raised).  [#2328]

Commit message:

Added changelog and backwards-incompatibility messages for coordinates

docs/whatsnew/0.4.rst, after:

.. doctest-skip-all

.. _whatsnew-0.4:

==========================
What's New in Astropy 0.4?
==========================

Overview
--------

xxx

Inspecting FITS headers from the command line
---------------------------------------------

The :ref:`astropy-io-fits` sub-package now provides a command line script for
inspecting the header(s) of a FITS file. With Astropy 0.4 installed, run
``fitsheader file.fits`` in your terminal to print the header information to
the screen in a human-readable format. Run ``fitsheader --help`` to see the
full usage documentation.

Documentation/Sphinx extension changes
--------------------------------------

Starting in v0.4, astropy documentation will now show the full name of functions
and classes prefixed by the intended user-facing location.  This is in contrast
to previous versions, which pointed to the actual implementation module, rather
than the intended public API location.

This will affect URLs pointing to specific documentation pages.  For example,
this URL points to the v0.3 location of the
`astropy.cosmology.luminosity_distance` function:
http://docs.astropy.org/en/v0.3/api/astropy.cosmology.funcs.luminosity_distance.html
while the appropriate URL for v0.4 and later is:
http://docs.astropy.org/en/v0.4/api/astropy.cosmology.luminosity_distance.html

Deprecation and backward-incompatible changes
---------------------------------------------

- ``Quantity`` comparisons with ``==`` or ``!=`` now always return ``True``
  or ``False``, even if units do not match (for which case a ``UnitsError``
  used to be raised).  [#2328]

- The `coordinates` package has undergone large changes for implementing the
  `APE5 <https://github.com/astropy/astropy-APEs/blob/master/APE5.rst>`_ plan
  for the package.  Pre-v0.4 coordinates may no longer work, and should be
  adapted to the new framework.  From this point on, major changes to the
  coordinates classes are not expected.  [#2422]
