docs/coordinates/index.rst, before:

.. _astropy-coordinates:

*******************************************************
Astronomical Coordinate Systems (`astropy.coordinates`)
*******************************************************

Introduction
============

The `~astropy.coordinates` package provides classes for representing celestial
coordinates, as well as tools for converting between standard systems in a
uniform way.

.. warning::
    `~astropy.coordinates` is currently a work-in-progress, and thus it is
    possible there will be significant API changes in later versions of
    Astropy. If you have specific ideas for how it might be improved,
    feel free to let us know on the `astropy-dev mailing list`_ or at
    http://feedback.astropy.org


Getting Started
===============

TODO: update to introduce SkyCoordinate first

Coordinate objects are instantiated with a flexible and natural approach that
supports both numeric angle values, (limited) string parsing, and can optionally
include lists of multiple coordinates in one object::

    >>> from astropy.coordinates import ICRS, Galactic
    >>> from astropy import units as u
    >>> ICRS(ra=10.68458*u.degree, dec=41.26917*u.degree)
    <ICRS Coordinate: ra=10.68458 deg, dec=41.26917 deg>
    >>> ICRS('00h42m44.3s', '+41d16m9s')
    <ICRS Coordinate: ra=10.6845833333 deg, dec=41.2691666667 deg>
    >>> ICRS(ra=[10.68458, 83.82208]*u.degree, dec=[41.26917, -5.39111]*u.degree)
    <ICRS Coordinate: (ra, dec) in deg
        [(10.684579999999983, 41.26917), (83.82208000000003, -5.39111)]>

The individual components of a coordinate are `~astropy.coordinates.Longitude`
or `~astropy.coordinates.Latitude` objects, which are specialized versions
of the general `~astropy.coordinates.Angle` class.  The component values are
accessed using aptly named attributes::

    >>> c = ICRS(ra=10.68458*u.degree, dec=41.26917*u.degree)
    >>> c.ra
    <Longitude 10.68457999999999 deg>
    >>> c.ra.hour
    0.712305333...
    >>> c.ra.hms
    hms_tuple(h=0.0, m=42.0, s=44.29919999999...)
    >>> c.dec
    <Latitude 41.26917... deg>
    >>> c.dec.radian
    0.7202828960652...

Coordinates can easily be converted to strings using the
:meth:`~astropy.coordinates.Angle.to_string` method::

TODO: update to show formatting with SkyCoordinate

To convert to some other coordinate system, the easiest method is to use
attribute-style access with short names for the built-in systems, but
explicit transformations via the
:meth:`~astropy.coordinates.SphericalCoordinatesBase.transform_to` method
are also available::

TODO: SkyCoordinate
.. >>> c.galactic
.. <Galactic l=121.17430 deg, b=-21.57280 deg>
.. >>> c.transform_to(Galactic)
.. <Galactic l=121.17430 deg, b=-21.57280 deg>

Distance from the origin (which is system-dependent, but often the
Earth center) can also be assigned to a coordinate. This specifies a
unique point in 3D space, which also allows conversion to Cartesian
coordinates::

    >>> from astropy.coordinates import Distance
    >>> c = ICRS(ra=10.68458*u.degree, dec=41.26917*u.degree,
    ...          distance=770*u.kpc)
    >>> c.cartesian.x
    <Quantity 568.712865423523... kpc>
    >>> c.cartesian.y
    <Quantity 107.300897404202... kpc>
    >>> c.cartesian.z
    <Quantity 507.889942918757... kpc>

Coordinate objects can also store arrays of coordinates instead of a
single coordinate.  This has a major performance advantage over
transforming many individual coordinate objects separtely.  It also
allows coordinate objects to be used to find matches between two sets
of coordinates::

TODO: update with SkyCoordinate
.. >>> #assume ra1/dec1 and ra2/dec2 are arrays loaded from some file
.. >>> c = ICRS(ra1*u.degree, dec1*u.degree)  # doctest: +SKIP
.. >>> catalog = ICRS(ra2*u.degree, dec2*u.degree)  # doctest: +SKIP
.. >>> idx, d2d, d3d = c.match_to_catalog_sky(catalog)  # doctest: +SKIP

These array coordinates can also be indexed in the same way as numpy
arrays::

    >>> len(c[0].ra) # doctest: +SKIP
    TypeError: 'Longitude' object with a scalar value has no len()
    >>> len(c[1:5].ra) # doctest: +SKIP
    4
    >>> matches = catalog[idx]  # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> len(matches) == len(c)  # doctest: +SKIP
    True


TODO: update for SkyCoordinate
The `astropy.coordinates` subpackage also provides a quick way to get
coordinates for named objects (if you have an active internet
connection). All subclasses of
`~astropy.coordinates.SphericalCoordinatesBase` have a special class method,
:meth:`~astropy.coordinates.SphericalCoordinatesBase.from_name`, that
accepts a string and queries `Sesame
<http://cds.u-strasbg.fr/cgi-bin/Sesame>`_ to retrieve coordinates for that
object::

.. >>> c = ICRS.from_name("M42")  # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA
.. >>> c.ra, c.dec  # doctest: +SKIP
.. (<Longitude 83.82208... deg>, <Latitude -5.39111... deg>)

This works for any subclass of
`~astropy.coordinates.SphericalCoordinatesBase`::

.. >>> c = Galactic.from_name("M42")  # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA
.. >>> c.l, c.b  # doctest: +SKIP
.. (<Longitude 3.64797... rad>, <Latitude -0.33827... rad>)

.. note::

    This is intended to be a convenience, and is very simple. If you
    need precise coordinates for an object you should find the
    appropriate reference for that measurement and input the
    coordinates manually.


Using `astropy.coordinates`
===========================

More details of using `astropy.coordinates` are provided in the following
sections:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   angles
   creating
   formatting
   separations
   distances
   transforming
   matching
   designing
   sgr-example


In addition, another resource for the capabilities of this package is the
``'astropy.coordinates.tests.test_api'`` testing file. It showcases most of
the major capabilities of the package, and hence is a useful supplement to
this document.  You can see it by either looking at it directly if you
downloaded a copy of the astropy source code, or typing the following in an
IPython session::

    In [1]: from astropy.coordinates.tests import test_api
    In [2]: test_api??


See Also
========

Some references particularly useful in understanding subtleties of the
coordinate systems implemented here include:

* `Standards Of Fundamental Astronomy <http://www.iausofa.org/>`_
    The definitive implementation of IAU-defined algorithms.  The "SOFA Tools
    for Earth Attitude" document is particularly valuable for understanding
    the latest IAU standards in detail.
* `USNO Circular 179 <http://aa.usno.navy.mil/publications/docs/Circular_179.php>`_
    A useful guide to the IAU 2000/2003 work surrounding ICRS/IERS/CIRS and
    related problems in precision coordinate system work.
* Meeus, J. "Astronomical Algorithms"
    A valuable text describing details of a wide range of coordinate-related
    problems and concepts.



Reference/API
=============

.. automodapi:: astropy.coordinates
  :skip: ICRSCoordinates
  :skip: FK5Coordinates
  :skip: FK4Coordinates
  :skip: FK4NoETermCoordinates
  :skip: GalacticCoordinates
  :skip: HorizontalCoordinates

.. the ":skip:"s above are to not document the v0.3 backwards-compatibility
.. names.  They will be removed in the next version

Commit message:

Fix for lingering doc issues in coordinates

docs/coordinates/index.rst, after:

.. _astropy-coordinates:

*******************************************************
Astronomical Coordinate Systems (`astropy.coordinates`)
*******************************************************

Introduction
============

The `~astropy.coordinates` package provides classes for representing celestial
coordinates, as well as tools for converting between standard systems in a
uniform way.

.. warning::
    `~astropy.coordinates` is currently a work-in-progress, and thus it is
    possible there will be significant API changes in later versions of
    Astropy. If you have specific ideas for how it might be improved,
    feel free to let us know on the `astropy-dev mailing list`_ or at
    http://feedback.astropy.org


Getting Started
===============

.. todo:: update to introduce SkyCoordinate first

Coordinate objects are instantiated with a flexible and natural approach that
supports both numeric angle values, (limited) string parsing, and can optionally
include lists of multiple coordinates in one object::

    >>> from astropy.coordinates import ICRS, Galactic
    >>> from astropy import units as u
    >>> ICRS(ra=10.68458*u.degree, dec=41.26917*u.degree)
    <ICRS Coordinate: ra=10.68458 deg, dec=41.26917 deg>
    >>> ICRS('00h42m44.3s', '+41d16m9s')
    <ICRS Coordinate: ra=10.6845833333 deg, dec=41.2691666667 deg>
    >>> ICRS(ra=[10.68458, 83.82208]*u.degree, dec=[41.26917, -5.39111]*u.degree)
    <ICRS Coordinate: (ra, dec) in deg
        [(10.684579999999983, 41.26917), (83.82208000000003, -5.39111)]>

The individual components of a coordinate are `~astropy.coordinates.Longitude`
or `~astropy.coordinates.Latitude` objects, which are specialized versions
of the general `~astropy.coordinates.Angle` class.  The component values are
accessed using aptly named attributes::

    >>> c = ICRS(ra=10.68458*u.degree, dec=41.26917*u.degree)
    >>> c.ra
    <Longitude 10.68457999999999 deg>
    >>> c.ra.hour
    0.712305333...
    >>> c.ra.hms
    hms_tuple(h=0.0, m=42.0, s=44.29919999999...)
    >>> c.dec
    <Latitude 41.26917... deg>
    >>> c.dec.radian
    0.7202828960652...

Coordinates can easily be converted to strings using the
:meth:`~astropy.coordinates.Angle.to_string` method::

.. todo:: update to show formatting with SkyCoordinate

To convert to some other coordinate system, the easiest method is to use
attribute-style access with short names for the built-in systems, but
explicit transformations via the
:meth:`~astropy.coordinates.SphericalCoordinatesBase.transform_to` method
are also available::

.. todo:: SkyCoordinate
.. >>> c.galactic
.. <Galactic l=121.17430 deg, b=-21.57280 deg>
.. >>> c.transform_to(Galactic)
.. <Galactic l=121.17430 deg, b=-21.57280 deg>

Distance from the origin (which is system-dependent, but often the
Earth center) can also be assigned to a coordinate. This specifies a
unique point in 3D space, which also allows conversion to Cartesian
coordinates::

    >>> from astropy.coordinates import Distance
    >>> c = ICRS(ra=10.68458*u.degree, dec=41.26917*u.degree,
    ...          distance=770*u.kpc)
    >>> c.cartesian.x
    <Quantity 568.712865423523... kpc>
    >>> c.cartesian.y
    <Quantity 107.300897404202... kpc>
    >>> c.cartesian.z
    <Quantity 507.889942918757... kpc>

Coordinate objects can also store arrays of coordinates instead of a
single coordinate.  This has a major performance advantage over
transforming many individual coordinate objects separtely.  It also
allows coordinate objects to be used to find matches between two sets
of coordinates::

.. todo:: update with SkyCoordinate
.. >>> #assume ra1/dec1 and ra2/dec2 are arrays loaded from some file
.. >>> c = ICRS(ra1*u.degree, dec1*u.degree)  # doctest: +SKIP
.. >>> catalog = ICRS(ra2*u.degree, dec2*u.degree)  # doctest: +SKIP
.. >>> idx, d2d, d3d = c.match_to_catalog_sky(catalog)  # doctest: +SKIP

These array coordinates can also be indexed in the same way as numpy
arrays::

    >>> len(c[0].ra) # doctest: +SKIP
    TypeError: 'Longitude' object with a scalar value has no len()
    >>> len(c[1:5].ra) # doctest: +SKIP
    4
    >>> matches = catalog[idx]  # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> len(matches) == len(c)  # doctest: +SKIP
    True


.. todo:: update for SkyCoordinate

The `astropy.coordinates` subpackage also provides a quick way to get
coordinates for named objects (if you have an active internet
connection). All subclasses of
`~astropy.coordinates.SphericalCoordinatesBase` have a special class method,
:meth:`~astropy.coordinates.SphericalCoordinatesBase.from_name`, that
accepts a string and queries `Sesame
<http://cds.u-strasbg.fr/cgi-bin/Sesame>`_ to retrieve coordinates for that
object::

.. >>> c = ICRS.from_name("M42")  # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA
.. >>> c.ra, c.dec  # doctest: +SKIP
.. (<Longitude 83.82208... deg>, <Latitude -5.39111... deg>)

This works for any subclass of
`~astropy.coordinates.SphericalCoordinatesBase`::

.. >>> c = Galactic.from_name("M42")  # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA
.. >>> c.l, c.b  # doctest: +SKIP
.. (<Longitude 3.64797... rad>, <Latitude -0.33827... rad>)

.. note::

    This is intended to be a convenience, and is very simple. If you
    need precise coordinates for an object you should find the
    appropriate reference for that measurement and input the
    coordinates manually.


Using `astropy.coordinates`
===========================

More details of using `astropy.coordinates` are provided in the following
sections:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   angles
   creating
   formatting
   separations
   distances
   transforming
   matching
   designing
   sgr-example


In addition, another resource for the capabilities of this package is the
``'astropy.coordinates.tests.test_api'`` testing file. It showcases most of
the major capabilities of the package, and hence is a useful supplement to
this document.  You can see it by either looking at it directly if you
downloaded a copy of the astropy source code, or typing the following in an
IPython session::

    In [1]: from astropy.coordinates.tests import test_api
    In [2]: test_api??


See Also
========

Some references particularly useful in understanding subtleties of the
coordinate systems implemented here include:

* `Standards Of Fundamental Astronomy <http://www.iausofa.org/>`_
    The definitive implementation of IAU-defined algorithms.  The "SOFA Tools
    for Earth Attitude" document is particularly valuable for understanding
    the latest IAU standards in detail.
* `USNO Circular 179 <http://aa.usno.navy.mil/publications/docs/Circular_179.php>`_
    A useful guide to the IAU 2000/2003 work surrounding ICRS/IERS/CIRS and
    related problems in precision coordinate system work.
* Meeus, J. "Astronomical Algorithms"
    A valuable text describing details of a wide range of coordinate-related
    problems and concepts.



Reference/API
=============

.. automodapi:: astropy.coordinates
